README.md, before:

# Google Play Publisher Plugin
Gradle Plugin to publish android APKs and listings on Google Play

## Continuous Integration
|Branch|Status|
| ------------- | ------------- |
|Master|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin)|
|Staging|[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin.svg?branch=staging)](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin)|
|Production|[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin.svg?branch=production)](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin)|

## Setup

Setup up your Google Developers Service Account

1. Open the [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/)
1. Select **Settings** tab, followed by the **API access** tab
1. Click the **Create Service Account** button and follow the **Google API Console** link in the dialog
1. Click the **Create Service account** button at the top of the developers console screen
1. Provide a name for the service account
1. Click **Select a role** and choose **Project > Service Account Actor**
1. Check the **Furnish a new private key** checkbox
1. Select **JSON** as the Key type
1. Click **Create** to close the dialog
1. Make a note of the file name of the JSON file downloaded to your computer
1. Back on the Google Play developer console, click **Done** to close the dialog
1. Click on **Grant Access** for the newly added service account
1. Choose **Release Manager** from the **Role** dropdown
1. Click **Add user** to close the dialog

Add the following configuration to your `build.gradle`, replacing X.Y.Z by the [latest version](https://github.com/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin/releases/latest)


    buildscript {
      repositories {
        jcenter()
      }
      dependencies {
        classpath 'com.jdroidframework:jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin:X.Y.Z'
      }
    }
    
    apply plugin: 'com.jdroid.googleplay.publisher'
    
You need to define the following gradle properties:

###### Application Id

The application id of your app. This property is required
    
    APPLICATION_ID = 'com.sample'
    
###### Private Key Json File Directory

Path to the directory where the private key json file is located. This property is required.
The private key json file path will generated as follows: **${PRIVATE_KEY_JSON_DIR}/${APPLICATION_ID}.json**

For example:
    
    PRIVATE_KEY_JSON_FILE_DIR = /credentials/googleplay
    APPLICATION_ID = 'com.sample'
    // The private key json file should be at /credentials/googleplay/com.sample.json

###### Locales

List of supported locales on Google Play. This property is required
    
    LOCALES = 'en-US,es-419'

## Usage

#### Verify Metadata

Verify that the metadata to upload to Google Play is valid.

    ./gradlew googlePlayVerifyMetadata
    
###### Video Required

If the video url is required. The default value is **false**

    VIDEO_REQUIRED = true
    
###### Promo Graphic Required

If the promo graphic is required. The default value is **true**

    PROMO_GRAPHIC_REQUIRED = false
    
###### Phone Screenshots Required

If the phone screenshots are required. The default value is **true**

    PHONE_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = false
    
###### 7 inches Screenshots Required

If the 7 inches screenshots are required. The default value is **false**

    7_INCH_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = true
    
###### 10 inches Screenshots Required

If the 10 inches screenshots are required. The default value is **false**

    10_INCH_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = true

#### Publish Metadata task

Publish metadata (feature/promo graphics, High resolution icon, screenshots, title, short description, full description and video url) on Google Play. The listings are published for each locales defined on the **LOCALES** property. If some asset is not available for any locale, the resources inside the **default** directory will be used

    ./gradlew googlePlayPublishMetadata
    
Create the following directories:

    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/{LOCALE_1}/...
    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/{LOCALE_2}/...
    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/default/...
    
|Asset                |Required|Location                                                                     |
| ------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|Title                |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/title.txt                                    |
|Short Description    |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/short_description.txt                        |
|Full Description     |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/full_description.txt                         |
|Video                |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/video.txt                                    |
|Feature Graphic      |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/featureGraphic.png                    |
|High Resolution Icon |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/highResolutionIcon.png                |
|Promo Graphic        |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/promoGraphic.png                      |
|Phone Screenshots    |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/phoneScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png     |
|7-inch Screenshots   |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/sevenInchScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png |
|10-inch Screenshots  |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/tenInchScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png   |
    

###### Listing path

The path where all the listings directories will be located. The default value is the path of the gradle project where the plugin is applied

    METADATA_PATH = /path/to/the/metadata
    
#### List APKs

List all the historical APKs uploaded.

    ./gradlew googlePlayListAPKs
    
#### Publish APK

Upload new APK for your app and assign it to a release track.

    ./gradlew googlePlayPublishAPK
    
###### APK path

The path to the APK to upload

    APK_PATH = /path/to/apk/file.apk

###### Track

The release track that you're assigning APKs to. Acceptable values are: **alpha**, **beta**, **rollout** or **production**

    TRACK = alpha
    
###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users). Only used if **TRACK** is **rollout**. Default value: 0.005 (0.5%)  
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.1
    
#### Promote from Alpha to Beta

Promote a current alpha to beta

    googlePlayPromoteFromAlphaToBeta
    
#### Promote from Alpha to Rollout

Promote a current alpha to staged rollout

    googlePlayPromoteFromAlphaToRollout
    
###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users). Default value: 0.005 (0.5%)
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.2
    
#### Promote from Alpha to Beta

Promote a current alpha to beta

    googlePlayPromoteFromAlphaToBeta
    
#### Promote from Beta to Rollout

Promote a current beta to rollout

    googlePlayPromoteFromBetaToRollout

###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users). Default value: 0.005 (0.5%)
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.2
    
#### Increase Staged Rollout

Increase the fraction of users who should get the current staged rollout APK

    googlePlayIncreaseStagedRollout

###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users).
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.2
    
#### Promote from Rollout to Production

Promote a current staged rollout to production

    googlePlayPromoteFromRolloutToProduction


## Donations
Help us to continue with this project:

[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=2UEBTRTSCYA9L)

<a href='https://pledgie.com/campaigns/30030'><img alt='Click here to lend your support to: Jdroid and make a donation at pledgie.com !' src='https://pledgie.com/campaigns/30030.png?skin_name=chrome' border='0' ></a>

Commit message:

Support to publish APK release notes. Close #10 Support for Wear Screenshots. Close #13 Support for TV Screenshots. Close #12 Support for TV Banner. Close #11

README.md, after:

# Google Play Publisher Plugin
Gradle Plugin to publish android APKs and listings on Google Play

## Continuous Integration
|Branch|Status|
| ------------- | ------------- |
|Master|[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin)|
|Staging|[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin.svg?branch=staging)](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin)|
|Production|[![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin.svg?branch=production)](https://travis-ci.org/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin)|

## Setup

Setup up your Google Developers Service Account

1. Open the [Google Play Console](https://play.google.com/apps/publish/)
1. Select **Settings** tab, followed by the **API access** tab
1. Click the **Create Service Account** button and follow the **Google API Console** link in the dialog
1. Click the **Create Service account** button at the top of the developers console screen
1. Provide a name for the service account
1. Click **Select a role** and choose **Project > Service Account Actor**
1. Check the **Furnish a new private key** checkbox
1. Select **JSON** as the Key type
1. Click **Create** to close the dialog
1. Make a note of the file name of the JSON file downloaded to your computer
1. Back on the Google Play developer console, click **Done** to close the dialog
1. Click on **Grant Access** for the newly added service account
1. Choose **Release Manager** from the **Role** dropdown
1. Click **Add user** to close the dialog

Add the following configuration to your `build.gradle`, replacing X.Y.Z by the [latest version](https://github.com/maxirosson/jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin/releases/latest)


    buildscript {
      repositories {
        jcenter()
      }
      dependencies {
        classpath 'com.jdroidframework:jdroid-googleplay-publisher-plugin:X.Y.Z'
      }
    }
    
    apply plugin: 'com.jdroid.googleplay.publisher'
    
You need to define the following gradle properties:

###### Application Id

The application id of your app. This property is required
    
    APPLICATION_ID = 'com.sample'
    
###### Private Key Json File Directory

Path to the directory where the private key json file is located. This property is required.
The private key json file path will generated as follows: **${PRIVATE_KEY_JSON_DIR}/${APPLICATION_ID}.json**

For example:
    
    PRIVATE_KEY_JSON_FILE_DIR = /credentials/googleplay
    APPLICATION_ID = 'com.sample'
    // The private key json file should be at /credentials/googleplay/com.sample.json

###### Locales

List of supported locales on Google Play. This property is required
    
    LOCALES = 'en-US,es-419'

## Usage

#### Verify Metadata

Verify that the metadata to upload to Google Play is valid.

    ./gradlew googlePlayVerifyMetadata
    
###### Video Required

If the video url is required. The default value is **false**

    VIDEO_REQUIRED = true
    
###### Promo Graphic Required

If the promo graphic is required. The default value is **true**

    PROMO_GRAPHIC_REQUIRED = false

###### Tv Banner Required

If the tv banner is required. The default value is **false**

    TV_BANNER_REQUIRED = true
    
###### Phone Screenshots Required

If the phone screenshots are required. The default value is **true**

    PHONE_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = false
    
###### 7 inches Screenshots Required

If the 7 inches screenshots are required. The default value is **false**

    7_INCH_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = true
    
###### 10 inches Screenshots Required

If the 10 inches screenshots are required. The default value is **false**

    10_INCH_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = true
    
###### Tv Screenshots Required

If the tv screenshots are required. The default value is **false**

    TV_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = true
    
###### Wear Screenshots Required

If the wear screenshots are required. The default value is **false**

    WEAR_SCREENSHOTS_REQUIRED = true

#### Publish Metadata task

Publish metadata (feature/promo graphics, High resolution icon, screenshots, title, short description, full description and video url) on Google Play. The listings are published for each locales defined on the **LOCALES** property. If some asset is not available for any locale, the resources inside the **default** directory will be used

    ./gradlew googlePlayPublishMetadata
    
Create the following directories:

    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/{LOCALE_1}/...
    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/{LOCALE_2}/...
    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/default/...
    
|Asset                |Required|Location                                                         |
| ------------------- | ------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------|
|Title                |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/title.txt                                    |
|Short Description    |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/short_description.txt                        |
|Full Description     |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/full_description.txt                         |
|Video                |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/video.txt                                    |
|Feature Graphic      |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/featureGraphic.png                    |
|High Resolution Icon |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/highResolutionIcon.png                |
|Tv Banner            |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/tvBanner.png                          |
|Promo Graphic        |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/images/promoGraphic.png                      |
|Phone Screenshots    |true    |googleplay/{LOCALE}/phoneScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png     |
|7-inch Screenshots   |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/sevenInchScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png |
|10-inch Screenshots  |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/tenInchScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png   |
|Tv Screenshots       |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/tvScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png        |
|Wear Screenshots     |false   |googleplay/{LOCALE}/wearScreenshots/screenshot[1 ... 8].png      |
    

###### Listing path

The path where all the listings directories will be located. The default value is the path of the gradle project where the plugin is applied

    METADATA_PATH = /path/to/the/metadata
    
#### List APKs

List all the historical APKs uploaded.

    ./gradlew googlePlayListAPKs
    
#### Publish APK

Upload new APK for your app and assign it to a release track.

    ./gradlew googlePlayPublishAPK
    
###### APK path

The path to the APK to upload

    APK_PATH = /path/to/apk/file.apk

###### Track

The release track that you're assigning APKs to. Acceptable values are: **alpha**, **beta**, **rollout** or **production**

    TRACK = alpha
    
###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users). Only used if **TRACK** is **rollout**. Default value: 0.005 (0.5%)  
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.1
    
###### Release Notes

Create the following files with the release notes:

    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/{LOCALE_1}/changelogs/{VERSION_CODE}.txt
    {METADATA_PATH}/googleplay/{LOCALE_2}/changelogs/{VERSION_CODE}.txt
    
#### Promote from Alpha to Beta

Promote a current alpha to beta

    googlePlayPromoteFromAlphaToBeta
    
#### Promote from Alpha to Rollout

Promote a current alpha to staged rollout

    googlePlayPromoteFromAlphaToRollout
    
###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users). Default value: 0.005 (0.5%)
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.2
    
#### Promote from Alpha to Beta

Promote a current alpha to beta

    googlePlayPromoteFromAlphaToBeta
    
#### Promote from Beta to Rollout

Promote a current beta to rollout

    googlePlayPromoteFromBetaToRollout

###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users). Default value: 0.005 (0.5%)
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.2
    
#### Increase Staged Rollout

Increase the fraction of users who should get the current staged rollout APK

    googlePlayIncreaseStagedRollout

###### User Fraction

Portion of the users who should get the staged rollout version of the APK. 
The maximum rollout fraction is 0.5 (50% of users).
    
    USER_FRACTION = 0.2
    
#### Promote from Rollout to Production

Promote a current staged rollout to production

    googlePlayPromoteFromRolloutToProduction


## Donations
Help us to continue with this project:

[![Donate](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=2UEBTRTSCYA9L)

<a href='https://pledgie.com/campaigns/30030'><img alt='Click here to lend your support to: Jdroid and make a donation at pledgie.com !' src='https://pledgie.com/campaigns/30030.png?skin_name=chrome' border='0' ></a>
